<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />

h1=. Rosette Analysis for Elasticsearch

h2. Introduction

The Rosette Analysis plugin integrates "Basis Technology's":http://www.basistech.com/ Lucene analysis modules into elasticsearch.  These modules encapsulate the "Rosette Linguistics Platform":http://www.basistech.com/text-analytics/rosette/ (Rosette). For more information, see __Rosette Linguistics Platform Application Developer's Guide: Lucene/Solr Connector__. 

h2. Compatibility

The following table shows the versions of elasticsearch and Rosette used to build this plugin. 

|_. Rosette Analysis Plugin           |_.  Elasticsearch   |_.  Rosette   |
| <tbd>                           | <tbd>             | tbd>      |

h2. Building the Plugin

Building this plugin requires the following dependencies, which are not publicly available.  These are found in the "Rosette.":http://www.basistech.com/text-analytics/rosette/ SDK:

    * btrlp.jar
    * btutil.jar
    * common-20.jar
    * rlp-lucene-solr-43-7.9.jar
    * rlp-lucene-extra-7.9.jar

You can install these into your local maven repository by using the script _mvn-install-rosette-artifacts.sh_ as follows:

bc. sh mvn-install-rosette-artifacts.sh <rosette.home>

where <code>rosette.home</code> is the root of your Rosette SDK installation.

Once these dependencies are present in your maven repository, you can build the plugin as shown:

bc. mvn -Dbt.root=<rosette.home> package

(<code>-Dbt.root=<rosette.home></code> is needed to run the unit tests.)

h2. Installing the Plugin

After building the plugin, you can install it using the Elasticsearch _plugin_ command as follows:

bc. <es.home>/bin/plugin --install analysis-rosette --url file://<path to plugin>

where <code>es.home</code> is the root of your elasticsearch installation.
        
You also need to configure the installed plugin to look for the Rosette SDK in the right place. This is accomplished by creating the file <code><es.home>/config/bt/analysis-rosette-config.yml</code> that contains the single line <code>bt.root: <rosette.home></code>, e.g. <code>bt.root: /opt/rlp_7.9</code>.


